In this lecture, we are going to start reading data from our database.
Databases are very flexible with searching for data in a table.
We can grab values from specific columns, select multiple records or search by a condition.
Let's explore these options.
As usual, we are going to be writing a custom query inside the form type, the select keyword.
The select keyword will instruct the database to start searching for data.
After this keyword, we must provide a list of columns from a table.
The query we're building will search for IDs from the products table.
Let's add the ID column.
Next we can specify the table by adding the from keyword.
After this keyword, we can provide the name of the table.
Let's add in the products table.
Lastly, let's try executing the query.
After doing so, a table will be rendered above the form.
The table contains the IDs from the products table.
At the moment we are selecting a single column.
Let's try selecting multiple columns back in our query, we are going to add the name column to the
selection.
If we execute the query, the name has been included.
There's a short resolution for writing this query and our query.
We're providing a complete list of columns in our table.
Imagine if we had ten or 20 columns, this query would become large.
While it's not uncommon to write large queries, we should keep our queries as short as possible.
We can replace the column names with an asterisk character.
This character is a shortcut for selecting all columns from a table.
Let's try executing the query.
As you can see, the results are the same.
By using the asterisk character, we can quickly grab every value from a record.
The query we've written will select all records from a table.
We're not putting a limitation on the data selected by the query as SQL supports conditions in our queries.
For example, let's say we're interested in viewing our hat products below the query and the WHERE keyword.
This keyword allows us to filter data by adding a condition.
In this example, let's check if the name column is equal to hats.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to a complete list of comparison operators
in SQL.
You can use these comparison operators to filter through the values from a table.
Typically, you will apply these operators against a specific column.
Like our query.
We're telling the database to grab products with the name hats.
The database will perform a comparison on the name column.
Before heading back to our query, I want to quickly mention the documentation we're viewing.
W three Schools is an excellent resource for studying various keywords in SQL.
On the sidebar, we are given an extensive list of possible keywords.
I highly recommend bookmarking this page.
Let's head back to the query at the end of the query, add a semicolon.
If we were to execute the query, the table should contain a single record.
However, if multiple records have the name hats, the table would return additional results.
Overall, we are given the power to filter and search through records in a database in the next lecture.
Let's try updating our records.